This file documents `sourceinstall', a tool that unpacks, configures,
installs and keeps track of source packages from a graphical user
interface.

   Should this documentation be ever published, it will be

   published by the Free Software Foundation, 51 Franklin Street -
Fifth Floor Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

   Copyright (C) 2005 Claudio Fontana

   Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

   Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "GNU General Public License" and "GNU Free
Documentation License", with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no
Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section
entitled "GNU Free Documentation License" (*note Copying::).

GNU Source Installer
********************

`sourceinstall' automates configuration, compilation, installation and
removal of source packages, using the common procedures used to install
Unix software.

   This document was produced for version 0.3 of `sourceinstall'.

1 Introduction for Beginners
****************************

This is an introduction for real beginners. If you are already somewhat
experienced with UNIX-like systems and GNU install procedures, you
should skip this chapter, otherwise

   Welcome!

   `sourceinstall' will try to make configuration, compilation,
installation and removal of source packages easier for you as a
beginner, but instead of hiding information and operations, everything
that happens will be available for you to see, so you can hopefully
understand basic concepts by just using this program.

   Provided your system meets the requirements, and thus you manage to
have a working installation of `sourceinstall' itself, you will be
shortly able to install new software from its source code by surfing
the web, identifying a Free Software you like, downloading its SOURCE
package, and feeding it to GNU Installer.

1.1 Installing the Installer
============================

Proceed to download sourceinstall-0.3.tar.gz, and mark where the file
will be placed (the "folder", the "directory"). For example, we will
assume that you are downloading to

     /home/user/downloads

   After the download completes, start a console session. Your desktop
environment should include a button, picture, or menu item that refers
to a "shell", "terminal" or "console".

   After the console is open, you should see a brief message ending in
$; this message will be represented here by a single dollar character,
and you  shall NOT type that character as part of the commands.

   Reach the directory you just downloaded your file in, by typing in
the shell this command, followed by a RETURN:

     $ cd /home/user/downloads

   If you get an error message, double check your command for typos.
If things are going well, you will know because you will get nothing
else than another $ ended message (a "prompt")

   At this point enter the following command (this assumes you have the
GNU version of `tar'):

     $ tar -zxvf sourceinstall-0.3.tar.gz

   Note that you can use the tabulation (TAB) character to complete
names. Experiment with pressing (TAB) around the middle of the file
name.

   All the files you'll see are being extracted from the archive, and a
new directory is being created in the current one. At the end type:

     $ cd sourceinstall-0.3
     $ ./configure

   A lot of output will be showing at this point. The software is being
"configured" (adapted) for your system. If everything runs smooth, you
will see at most WARNINGs but no ERRORs. After a while you will get the
familiar dollar, and now you can write:

     $ make

   Some output will be shown, then again the familiar prompt. And now:

     $ su
     (Enter your root password)
     # make install

   After writing `su', you will be asked for your root password.  You
should have set your root password during your Operating System initial
setup. If you do not know, try pressing ENTER.  The # character before
`make install' denotes the fact that after `su' you have gained root
privileges. Since you are done, drop your root privileges by typing

     # exit

   Each time you want to run GNU Source Installer from the console,
type:

     sourceinstall

   To run it from the graphical environment, you should create some
kind of "shortcut" or "link" to the program on your desktop or in your
program menus. The program to launch is (assuming default values)
`/usr/local/bin/sourceinstall' .

   If you experience errors that prevent the correct installation and
execution of the program, the next section tries to deal with these
cases.

   At the end of the procedure you will get the following files
installed:

  1. `/usr/local/bin/sourceinstall'                (link to the program)

  2. `/usr/local/bin/sourceinstall.tcl'            (the program)

  3. `/usr/local/info/sourceinstall.info'          (texinfo manual)

  4. `/usr/local/man/man1/sourceinstall.man'       (man page)

   To consult the GNU Source Installer manual type

     $ info sourceinstall

   If you want a brief overview of program invocation and options, you
can consult the traditional man page by issuing

     $ man sourceinstall

1.2 Troubleshooting `sourceinstall' Installation
================================================

If you could not install GNU Source Installer, this is most likely
because you do not have the required software in your system.

   Look at the output of `./configure', and you will see which programs
have not been found on your system.

   The most blocking thing is if you miss `tcl', `Tk' or `Expect': in
this case `./configure' will exit with an error, and `make' will not be
able to run.

   If this is your case, you will need to install tcl, tk and/or
expect. If you have your OS installation disk(s), chances are that the
software is available there, and is installable using the OS specific
installation system.

   Otherwise, probably the easiest method to obtain an interpreter able
to work with GNU Source Installer is to build the `expectk' program,
which is included in the Expect package.

   You can fetch it from `http://expect.nist.gov/'

   The other method is to use tclsh, with the Tk and Expect packages.
Source releases for tcl can be obtained from
`http://sourceforge.net/projects/tcl/'.

   After having a working interpreter, restart the procedure from
`./configure' and things should be better.

   If you miss any of the other helper programs, only the particular
functionality offered by that program will be missing (a WARNING will
be shown).

   This is a comprensive list of programs that GNU Source Installer
uses, from the most important ones, to the really secondary:

`tcl interpreter'
     `tclsh' with the Tk and Expect tcl packages, or in alternative the
     all-in-one `expectk' interpreter.

`sh, cp, mv, rm, du, su, rmdir, find'
     these should be part of every unix-like. You must have them for
     GNU Source Installer to work correctly.

`tar'
     this is necessary to extract the source .tar archive - in theory
     you could use GNU Source Installer without this, but in practice
     you will need it.

`gzip, gunzip'
     these are necessary to uncompress .gz files and to compress the
     stored source using the quick but less-than-bz2 (but still good)
     space efficient .gz compression.

`bunzip2, bzip2'
     these are necessary to uncompress .bz2 files and to compress the
     stored source using the very space efficient (but more time
     consuming) .bz2 compression. By default, the source is stored
     using this compression.

`ps'
     this command is used to better detect other sourceinstall
     processes. GNU Source Installer also uses a lock file, so it is
     not really necessary.

`unzip, zip'
     these deal with .zip files. It is very unlikely that you will find
     Free Software source packages available only in .zip format so you
     can ignore this. Also, you do not want to compress your source
     using zip. I found both .gz and .bz2 to be much more efficient at
     least when dealing with source. Ignore warning if not present.

`compress'
     this deals with .Z files. The gzip utilities are used to
     uncompress .Z packages, so you would only need this if for some
     arcane reason you want to store source in .Z format. Ignore
     warning if not present.


   If you still have problems, you can write an email to the
`sourceinstall' users mailing list <bug-sourceinstall@gnu.org> and ask
for help.  Something that can help a lot is reporting the full output of

     $ ./configure

   Feedback of any sort is also welcome.  Good luck, and I hope this
helps :)

2 Introduction for the Experienced
**********************************

Source Installer (`sourceinstall') is a program that offers a graphical
interface to source package configuration, installation, tracking and
removal.

   It is intended to work on Unix-like systems (with `GNU/Linux' as a
primary target).

   This is a tool intended for the user, not for developers: it has
nothing to do with package creation.

   The user installs new source packages by browsing the web,
downloading a source package (in .tar.gz or other formats), and then
feeding it to the source installer.

2.1 Why should you use this program?
====================================

If you already build most of the software on your system from source
code, you might try `sourceinstall' as a way to centralize and better
organize your interactive source installs. Here is what this software
offers to the experienced user:

`better integration with your GUI programs.'
     Other GUI programs could interface with GNU Source Installer and
     provide tigher integration if desired.

     This would be possible by interfacing at the simplest level (the
     executable level), by running `sourceinstall
     mypackage-1.0.1.tar.gz' for example.

     Another item, this one in the wishlist yet, is the drag-and-drop
     of source packages to the `sourceinstall' gui.

`tracking of all currently installed source packages,'
     with info about install size, source size, and all files relevant
     to each package.

`automatic quick check for broken installs.'
     If you remove or rename a file associated with an installed
     package, then clicking on the package will prompt the problem, and
     mark the missing file in red. If you can not solve the issue
     yourself by restoring the file, you can click "Reinstall" and get
     a fresh reinstallation.

`implicit check for reliable and gnu-conforming packages.'
     The program will issue warnings if the package offers only a very
     spartane build system, or does not correctly honor common Makefile
     targets and features.

`full debugging output.'
     A pseudo-console with all the output is provided, so you will be
     able to get notified of warnings and errors from `./configure',
     `make', and all other programs.

`clean uninstallation'
     The program performs crosschecks between make uninstall results
     and internal information available on individual packages
     (gathered during the install process). These checks can detect
     files left over by the make uninstall procedure, and if no other
     package claims them, they are suggested for removal.


2.2 Why should you avoid this program?
======================================

The following is a critique against this tool, that shows what you
lose, or do not gain in contrast to relying on the good old command
line:

`you can lose time.'
     `sourceinstall' basically installs two times. However, the install
     process is generally not so time-consuming, for example in
     contrast to the compile process. The program makes a test
     installation first (if `DESTDIR' is supported), to make a final
     check and gather useful information. This has an impact on total
     installation time.

`it is not scriptable.'
     `sourceinstall' can be called with filename parameters, but during
     installation dialogs can be popped up if decisions have to be
     taken. This is a tool tought for interactive use, so if total
     automation is your goal, `sourceinstall' is not for you.

`some packages might not work.'
     `sourceinstall' has to make some generalizations and will not be
     able to install difficult packages. An experienced user or
     developer can quickly go through a broken or sketched `Makefile'
     and fix things for his system, but `sourceinstall' can not. On the
     other hand, if enough people use this tool, this could further
     drive developers towards the autotools and to create better
     packages in general.

`no package-level dependency tracking, no repository, nothing at all'
     If your package blocks during configuration, for example, you
     still look at that damned error message in the pseudo-console and
     act consequently (generally this involves browsing for that
     missing file/package).

`people who install everything from source might not give a damn.'
     After widespread adoption, however, even less experienced users
     could be able to approach the source packages (and hopefully
     become more experienced with time)


3 Invoking
**********

This chapter shows the options and parameters that `sourceinstall'
accepts.

3.1 Synopsis
============

     sourceinstall [-hV] [[SOURCE_PACKAGE], ...]

   If called without any arguments, the program starts a graphical
interface and waits user input to decide the action to perform.

3.2 Options
===========

If called with the `-h', or long equivalent `--help' option, then no
graphical interface will be started, and a help message with the
available options will be displayed on standard output.

   If called with the `-V', or long equivalent `--version' option, then
no graphical interface will be started, and a version string message
will be displayed on standard output.

   If one or more `SOURCE_PACKAGE' parameters are specified, then all
specified source packages will be installed in the given order. The
first install failure breaks the chain.

4 Usage for Beginners
*********************

4.1 The default setup
=====================

For beginners, a default setup known to work well for GNU Source
Installer is the following:

  1. Your OS distribution provided programs are prefixed using `/usr'.
     GNU Source Installer itself is either prefixed using `/usr' or
     `/usr/local' (this means that the program executables are in
     `/usr/bin' or `/usr/local/bin' respectively.

  2. You login normally as you always do with your user name, then
     start the GNU Source Installer using command `sourceinstall'. You
     do NOT login as root.  At the appropriate times, during
     installation, you will be asked for the root password if necessary.

  3. The default prefix in your preferences is `/usr/local', and thus
     you install your source packages in `/usr/local'

  4. You are the only one on the system that installs source packages,
     and always do that logging in as the same user.

4.2 Looking for the right package
=================================

First of all, think about a software you want. It is highly probable
that such a software package is available under a Free license
somewhere.

   You can search by simply using a web search engine.

   Tip: add GPL or another Free license name to your search, so you are
sure to find real Free Software, and not freeware, shareware or
whatelse.  You can also try the term "Open Source" (the Free Software
movement generally despises the term, but it is less prone to sending
you to a freeware or even commercial page than trying to enter "Free
Software" in your engine).

   You can choose another road, and use a Directory instead.  Good
places to start are the Free Software Directory and Savannah (home to
the `sourceinstall' project development). Other good places to search
are Freshmeat and Sourceforge, although you will find a lot of not
really Free software there too.

   Once you have found an interesting software, look for a SOURCE
download (.tar.gz, .tar.bz2, ..)  Proceed with the download, and mark
where the file will be downloaded.

4.3 Adding a new source package
===============================

Once you have a new shiny source package, it is time to add it from the
Source Installer. Run `sourceinstall', then press the `Add' button.

   In the `Add' dialog that appears, you can choose `Browse' to locate
the package, and finally choose `Ok' to proceed. Let the other
checkboxes be with their default values.

   If everything runs smooth and the package has been built with the
autotools, you will be presented with a configuration window, where all
package options can be tweaked prior to installation.

   If you have no idea about what those options mean, at least take a
look at the option descriptions. You can then try 'Auto' to go on with
the defaults.

   The option `--prefix' will be highlighted. This is because it's a
very useful and important option, that lets you specify where your
install tree should start.

   When you are satisfied with the options, choose `Ok' and wait for
the software to be configured and compiled.

   If no problems occur, you will be eventually asked for the root
password (if needed), and then you will be informed about the result of
the install operation.

4.4 Changing the Preferences
============================

The default prefix to use for your installs can be changed, like other
options, in the `Preferences' from the `Edit' menu, and it is initially
set to `/usr/local'.

   Here are the preferences you can change and their description:

   "Default installation choices: Manual configuration, Install, Keep
Source" These are the default values for the checkboxes when you
trigger the `Add' action. Beginners should keep all those selected.

   "Manual configuration" means that you will be able to see the
software configuration window. It will get you aquainted with the
common options supported by the packages, so it is recommended to keep
this selected.

   You can always choose `Auto' in the configuration window to stick
with the defaults.

   "Install" means that when you add new packages, they will be
installed. Most beginners would want this.

   "Keep Source" means that the configured source code is compressed,
archived and stored for later use. This does waste some space, but
ensures a cleaner uninstall process, and can provide a future easy
reinstallation.

   "Strip binaries (not recommended)": this option should be off. It
can cause a lot of trouble if you don't know what you are doing. It
involves removing symbolic information from the installed programs.

   "Default install prefix": this is the default prefix to use when
installing software packages. Programs and data will generally be
installed in a subtree of the specified directory. The default value is
`/usr/local' and is a good one for system-wide installs.

   "Src compression": this is the compression format to use when
archiving source packages. By default it is .bz2 (which provides very
space-efficient compression), but if you have plenty of space in your
disk and prefer quicker installs and uninstalls you can change it to .gz

4.5 Querying package information
================================

Clicking on the package will show all available information on that
package, and will activate the actions for the installed package:
`Remove' and `Reinstall'. This will also trigger a quick check to
ensure that the package has all its needed files in place.

4.6 Removing a package
======================

To remove a package, select it from the list and click the `Remove'
button.  When you `Remove' a package, you can decide to uninstall the
package but keep it in compressed source form. This way, should you
decide to install again later, you have the already configured source,
and only need to select it from the list and choose `Install'.

   These instructions should get you started.  Read on if you want to
know more.

5 Usage for the Experienced
***************************

A package processed by sourceinstall can exist in three forms:

  1. installed + archived configured source

  2. installed only

  3. archived configured source only

   For example, if you are short on space, and you are installing a
well-behaved package (you get no warning about DESTDIR not being
honoured during installation), you can decide to remove the archived
source (losing all the advantages though) to free up some space.
Alternatively, you can avoid to store it in the first place when you
perform the `Add' action.

   On the countrary, you might think that you do not require a certain
installed program right now, so you select the `Remove' action for that
package, but remove only the installation and not the source, so you
can quickly reinstall should you require the software again in the
future. Your configuration will be preserved, you will not need to pass
through the configuration window anymore if you were fine with the last
installation.

5.1 Consistency checks
======================

Another service that `sourceinstall' silently offers is a simple set of
consistency check for existing installations.  Selecting a package from
the list at any time will show all available information about the
installed package, and a check will be performed to see if the install
looks ok. If some of the files required by the program are missing, you
will find a notice and all the missing files will be highlighted in red
and marked with an asterisk (*).  At this point you can correct the
problem by restoring the missing files yourself (for example, you might
have accidentally moved them for arcane reasons), or just perform a
`Reinstall' action for the package.  Additionally, during the
uninstallation cross-checks between make uninstall results and internal
package information, only independent files (that is, files that are
not being claimed by other packages) are proposed for removal.  This
works better if you avoid installing non-conforming packages, because
Source Installer will not be able to know which files a non-conforming
package claims.

5.2 Conforming and non-conforming packages
==========================================

It is recommended to install only conforming packages using Source
Installer.  Conforming packages are built using the autotools, and
honor the install targets and environment variables correctly.  In
particular, conforming packages must honor DESTDIR.

   Conforming packages get better uninstallation, better checks, more
information in the Package information window. A single non-conforming
package can make uninstallation checks degrade. Uninstalling the
non-conforming package restores the better uninstallation checks.

   For these reasons, you will be warned when attempting to install a
non-conforming package.

   Much less important is the autoconf version used to produce the
configure script. If the version is old (currently < 2.50), only basic
configure options will be recognized and editable in the configuration
window.

5.3 Other package management systems
====================================

It is highy probable that you will have many different tools that
provide package management.  For example, if you are running a
GNU/Linux distribution, you probably have your distribution-specific
way to handle binary (or even source) packages.  What I suggest here is
to make a clean separation between your distribution-provided packages
(along with any additional packages installed using your
distribution-specific tools), and the source packages installed using
the distribution-independent GNU Source Installer.  One good way to
obtain this, is to use different prefixes for each package management
system you use.  Suppose your distribution-handled packages are in
`/usr', then your source packages managed by GNU Source Installer (or
by yourself) can be prefixed using `/usr/local' (this is the initial
value).  This way you ensure that file dependancy checks are not
tainted by other packages managed by other tools.

5.4 Users
=========

GNU Source Installer configuration and packages always refer to the
particular user that runs it. What follows is a list of possible setups.

   As the first example, suppose user Pip wants to install his private
packages. He chooses to install in `/home/pip/usr', at the same time
allowing user Merlin to install his own packages in `/home/merlin/usr'.
Of course, in this case no one steps on anybody's toes and everything
runs smooth.

   As the second example, user Merlin is the system administrator, and
personally deals with all system-wide package installations. Thus, he
logs in using his `merlin' account, then runs `sourceinstall' and uses
the default prefix value, which is `/usr/local' to install new
programs. When requested by the system, he is asked for the root
password. This is ideal for one-user systems.

   As a third example, suppose both Pip and Merlin deal with system
administration. They get along well, and both deal with system-wide
package installations. Thus, they decide to both install packages
logging in using the privileged `root' account, and then install using
`sourceinstall'. They will both see the same packages, because they are
logging in as the same user (`root'). However, only one of the two
admins will be able to install software at the exact same time, because
to prevent corruption of package data each user is entitled to a single
running instance of GNU Source Installer. When the program is already
in use, `sourceinstall' refuses to start and explains the error.

   As a last example, here's what not to do. Imagine both Pip and
Merlin deal with system administration, like before, but since they
don't read the docs, they login using their regular accounts, and
perform installs using the default system-wide prefix, `/usr/local',
providing the root password then needed. Even if they install at
different times this is a bad thing to do: they will not be aware of
each other's moves, file dependency tracking will be far less precise,
and consequently uninstallation crosschecks will sometimes hint the
wrong things.

5.5 Files and Directories
=========================

If you want to dwell on the internals of sourceinstall, this is an
interesting chapter. We will look at all files and directories that
together make sourceinstall work.

   The `sourceinstall' executable is in fact a symbolic link to the
implementation in use. For example:

     $ ls -l /usr/bin/sourceinstall*
     lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root     11 Jun  3 03:15 sourceinstall -> sourceinstall.tcl
     -rwxr-xr-x  1 root root  87019 Jun  3 03:15 sourceinstall.tcl

   Currently there is only a tcl implementation, but in the future this
system will be used to make different implementations of
`sourceinstall' coesist.

   I have some indistinct ideas about how it could be possible, at
configure time, to determine the best supported implementation, and by
default make the link point at that (of course the user will be able to
choose his preferred version using a configure option).

   All this is yet to come though, so for the moment this has no great
impact on the universe.

   The per user configuration directory is another story:

   each user that runs `sourceinstall' gets a .sourceinstall directory
created in his `HOME'. This is for example a directory tree:


$ tree ~/.sourceinstall
/home/claudio/.sourceinstall
|-- build
|-- install-destdir
|-- packages
|   |-- a-renet-1.1.0rc5
|   |-- cmdftp-0.9.2
|   `-- libmikmod-3.2.0-beta2
|-- src
|   |-- a-renet-1.1.0rc5.tar.bz2
|   |-- cmdftp-0.9.2.tar.bz2
|   `-- libmikmod-3.2.0-beta2.tar.bz2
`-- sourceinstallrc

   If sourceinstall were running, you would see another file,
`~/.sourceinstall/.sourceinstall_lock', containing the process id of
the running sourceinstall process.

   In this case there are only three packages installed. Each package
has a file name entry with the same name in the `packages' directory.
That file contains all information on that package.

   The source for all three packaged has been archived in the `src'
directory.

   The `install-destdir' directory is used during the test
installation, and then it is cleared.

   The `build' directory is used only while building packages, and then
it is cleared.

   Do not store anything in these directories yourself, because they
will be regularily emptied.

   The `sourceinstallrc' file contains the current user preferences.
These are the same options that can be tweaked from the `Preferences'
in the `Edit' Menu.

6 Reporting Bugs
****************

Email bug reports to <bug-sourceinstall@gnu.org>, trying to be as clear
and precise as possible. This means that you should provide all useful
information that could help to identify the problem, and a detailed way
to reproduce it.  A good starting point is to specify your OS name and
version. If you have no idea about what OS you have, try:

     $ uname -a

   Also, please report output of:

     $ ./configure

   because it includes your interpreter choice, package versions and
tools availability.

7 Copying
*********

GNU Source Installer (`sourceinstall') is Copyright (c) 2005 Claudio
Fontana and is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL).
This is a license that grants and protects freedoms.  `sourceinstall'
is thus Free Software.  There is an exception in the m4/tcl.m4 file,
which is Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Ajuba Solution, Copyright (c)
2002-2005 ActiveState Corporation.  The m4/tcl.m4 file is licensed
under a "revised BSD" license.  See m4/license.terms. It has been
slightly modified for GNU Source Installer.

   Please note that "Free" in "Free Software" refers to liberty, not
price.  Think of "free speech" rather than "free beer".  The exact and
legally binding distribution terms are spelled out below; in short, you
have the right (freedom) to run and change sourceinstall and distribute
it to other people, and even--if you want--charge money for doing
either.  The important restriction is that you have to grant your
recipients the same rights and impose the same restrictions.

   This method of licensing software is also known as "open source"
because, among other things, it makes sure that all recipients will
receive the source code along with the program, and be able to improve
it.  The GNU project prefers the term "free software" for reasons
outlined at
`http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-software-for-freedom.html'.

   The exact license terms are defined by this paragraph and the GNU
General Public License it refers to:


    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program (look for the file called COPYING);
    if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
    51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

    You can contact the author (Claudio Fontana) by sending an email
    to claudio@@gnu.org

   In addition to this, this manual is free in the same sense:


    Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
    under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
    any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
    Invariant Sections being ``GNU General Public License'' and ``GNU Free
    Documentation License'', with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no
    Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section
    entitled ``GNU Free Documentation License''.

   The full texts of the GNU General Public License and of the GNU Free
Documentation License are available below.

7.1 GNU General Public License
==============================

                         Version 2, June 1991
     Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     51 Franklin Street - Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

     Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
     of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble
========

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom
to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public License is
intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

   When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in
new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

   To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

   For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

   We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software,
and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

   Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

   Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

   The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

    TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
  1. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a
     notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
     under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program",
     below, refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on
     the Program" means either the Program or any derivative work under
     copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Program or a
     portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
     translated into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
     included without limitation in the term "modification".)  Each
     licensee is addressed as "you".

     Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are
     not covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act
     of running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the
     Program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on
     the Program (independent of having been made by running the
     Program).  Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  2. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
     source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
     conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
     copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
     notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
     warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of
     this License along with the Program.

     You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
     and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange
     for a fee.

  3. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
     of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
     distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
     above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

       a. You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

       b. You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that
          in whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program
          or any part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge
          to all third parties under the terms of this License.

       c. If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
          when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
          interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display
          an announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and
          a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you
          provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the
          program under these conditions, and telling the user how to
          view a copy of this License.  (Exception: if the Program
          itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
          announcement, your work based on the Program is not required
          to print an announcement.)

     These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
     identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the
     Program, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate
     works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not
     apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
     works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a
     whole which is a work based on the Program, the distribution of
     the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions
     for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each
     and every part regardless of who wrote it.

     Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or
     contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the
     intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of
     derivative or collective works based on the Program.

     In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the
     Program with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on
     a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
     other work under the scope of this License.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
     under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms
     of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the
     following:

       a. Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
          source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
          Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for
          software interchange; or,

       b. Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
          years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
          cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
          machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
          distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
          medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

       c. Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
          to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
          allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
          received the program in object code or executable form with
          such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

     The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
     making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete
     source code means all the source code for all modules it contains,
     plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts
     used to control compilation and installation of the executable.
     However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need
     not include anything that is normally distributed (in either
     source or binary form) with the major components (compiler,
     kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable
     runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable.

     If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
     access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
     access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
     distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
     compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
     except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
     otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
     void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this
     License.  However, parties who have received copies, or rights,
     from you under this License will not have their licenses
     terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  6. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
     signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify
     or distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions
     are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.
     Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any work
     based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this
     License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
     distributing or modifying the Program or works based on it.

  7. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
     Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
     original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program
     subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any
     further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights
     granted herein.  You are not responsible for enforcing compliance
     by third parties to this License.

  8. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
     infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent
     issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order,
     agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this
     License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
     License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously
     your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
     obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the
     Program at all.  For example, if a patent license would not permit
     royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those who
     receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only
     way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
     entirely from distribution of the Program.

     If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable
     under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is
     intended to apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply
     in other circumstances.

     It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
     patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of
     any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting
     the integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
     implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
     generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
     through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
     system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is
     willing to distribute software through any other system and a
     licensee cannot impose that choice.

     This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed
     to be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  9. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
     certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces,
     the original copyright holder who places the Program under this
     License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation
     excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only
     in or among countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this
     License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of
     this License.

 10. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
     versions of the General Public License from time to time.  Such
     new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but
     may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

     Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the
     Program specifies a version number of this License which applies
     to it and "any later version", you have the option of following
     the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later
     version published by the Free Software Foundation.  If the Program
     does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
     any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

 11. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
     programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the
     author to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted
     by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software
     Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our decision
     will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
     all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
     and reuse of software generally.

                                NO WARRANTY
 12. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
     WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
     LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
     HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT
     WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
     NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
     FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
     QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
     PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY
     SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

 13. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
     WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY
     MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE
     LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL,
     INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
     INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF
     DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU
     OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY
     OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN
     ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

                      END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs
=============================================

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these
terms.

   To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

     ONE LINE TO GIVE THE PROGRAM'S NAME AND AN IDEA OF WHAT IT DOES.
     Copyright (C) 20YY  NAME OF AUTHOR

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
     modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
     as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
     of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
     GNU General Public License for more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
     along with this program; if not, write to the
     Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
     51 Franklin Street - Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

   Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper
mail.

   If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like
this when it starts in an interactive mode:

     Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19YY NAME OF AUTHOR
     Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details
     type `show w'.  This is free software, and you are welcome
     to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c'
     for details.

   The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the
appropriate parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the
commands you use may be called something other than `show w' and `show
c'; they could even be mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your
program.

   You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or
your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program,
if necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

     Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright
     interest in the program `Gnomovision'
     (which makes passes at compilers) written
     by James Hacker.

     SIGNATURE OF TY COON, 1 April 1989
     Ty Coon, President of Vice

   This General Public License does not permit incorporating your
program into proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine
library, you may consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary
applications with the library.  If this is what you want to do, use the
GNU Library General Public License instead of this License.

7.2 GNU Free Documentation License
==================================

                      Version 1.2, November 2002
     Copyright (C) 2002  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

     Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
     of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.


  0. PREAMBLE

     The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
     functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to
     assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it,
     with or without modifying it, either commercially or
     noncommercially.  Secondarily, this License preserves for the
     author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not
     being considered responsible for modifications made by others.

     This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative
     works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.
     It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
     license designed for free software.

     We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for
     free software, because free software needs free documentation: a
     free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms
     that the software does.  But this License is not limited to
     software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
     of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book.
     We recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is
     instruction or reference.


  1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS This License applies to any manual
     or other work, in any medium, that contains a notice placed by the
     copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of
     this License.  Such a notice grants a world-wide, royalty-free
     license, unlimited in duration, to use that work under the
     conditions stated herein.  The "Document", below, refers to any
     such manual or work.  Any member of the public is a licensee, and
     is addressed as "you".  You accept the license if you copy, modify
     or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under
     copyright law.

     A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
     Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
     modifications and/or translated into another language.

     A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter
     section of the Document that deals exclusively with the
     relationship of the publishers or authors of the Document to the
     Document's overall subject (or to related matters) and contains
     nothing that could fall directly within that overall subject.
     (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
     Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.)  The
     relationship could be a matter of historical connection with the
     subject or with related matters, or of legal, commercial,
     philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.

     The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose
     titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in
     the notice that says that the Document is released under this
     License.  If a section does not fit the above definition of
     Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant.
     The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections.  If the Document
     does not identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.

     The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are
     listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice
     that says that the Document is released under this License.  A
     Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may
     be at most 25 words.

     A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
     represented in a format whose specification is available to the
     general public, that is suitable for revising the document
     straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images
     composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some
     widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to
     text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of
     formats suitable for input to text formatters.  A copy made in an
     otherwise Transparent file format whose markup, or absence of
     markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage subsequent
     modification by readers is not Transparent.  An image format is
     not Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text.  A
     copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".

     Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
     ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format,
     SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and
     standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for
     human modification.  Examples of transparent image formats include
     PNG, XCF and JPG.  Opaque formats include proprietary formats that
     can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML
     or XML for which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally
     available, and the machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF
     produced by some word processors for output purposes only.

     The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
     plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the
     material this License requires to appear in the title page.  For
     works in formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title
     Page" means the text near the most prominent appearance of the
     work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

     A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document
     whose title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses
     following text that translates XYZ in another language.  (Here XYZ
     stands for a specific section name mentioned below, such as
     "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", "Endorsements", or "History".)
     To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the
     Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according
     to this definition.

     The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice
     which states that this License applies to the Document.  These
     Warranty Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in
     this License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other
     implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and
     has no effect on the meaning of this License.


  2. VERBATIM COPYING

     You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
     commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
     copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License
     applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you
     add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You
     may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
     or further copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However,
     you may accept compensation in exchange for copies.  If you
     distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow
     the conditions in section 3.

     You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above,
     and you may publicly display copies.


  3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

     If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly
     have printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and
     the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must
     enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all
     these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and
     Back-Cover Texts on the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly
     and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies.  The
     front cover must present the full title with all words of the
     title equally prominent and visible.  You may add other material
     on the covers in addition.  Copying with changes limited to the
     covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and
     satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in
     other respects.

     If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
     legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
     reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto
     adjacent pages.

     If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document
     numbering more than 100, you must either include a
     machine-readable Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or
     state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location from
     which the general network-using public has access to download
     using public-standard network protocols a complete Transparent
     copy of the Document, free of added material.  If you use the
     latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you
     begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that
     this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated
     location until at least one year after the last time you
     distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or
     retailers) of that edition to the public.

     It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of
     the Document well before redistributing any large number of
     copies, to give them a chance to provide you with an updated
     version of the Document.


  4. MODIFICATIONS

     You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document
     under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you
     release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with
     the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus
     licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to
     whoever possesses a copy of it.  In addition, you must do these
     things in the Modified Version:

     A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title
     distinct    from that of the Document, and from those of previous
     versions    (which should, if there were any, be listed in the
     History section    of the Document).  You may use the same title
     as a previous version    if the original publisher of that version
     gives permission.  B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or
     more persons or entities    responsible for authorship of the
     modifications in the Modified    Version, together with at least
     five of the principal authors of the    Document (all of its
     principal authors, if it has fewer than five),    unless they
     release you from this requirement.  C. State on the Title page the
     name of the publisher of the    Modified Version, as the publisher.
     D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.  E. Add an
     appropriate copyright notice for your modifications    adjacent to
     the other copyright notices.  F. Include, immediately after the
     copyright notices, a license notice    giving the public
     permission to use the Modified Version under the    terms of this
     License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.  G. Preserve in
     that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections    and
     required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.  H.
     Include an unaltered copy of this License.  I. Preserve the
     section Entitled "History", Preserve its Title, and add    to it
     an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and
     publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page.  If
      there is no section Entitled "History" in the Document, create
     one    stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the
     Document as    given on its Title Page, then add an item
     describing the Modified    Version as stated in the previous
     sentence.  J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the
     Document for    public access to a Transparent copy of the
     Document, and likewise    the network locations given in the
     Document for previous versions    it was based on.  These may be
     placed in the "History" section.     You may omit a network
     location for a work that was published at    least four years
     before the Document itself, or if the original    publisher of the
     version it refers to gives permission.  K. For any section
     Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications",    Preserve the
     Title of the section, and preserve in the section all    the
     substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements
     and/or dedications given therein.  L. Preserve all the Invariant
     Sections of the Document,    unaltered in their text and in their
     titles.  Section numbers    or the equivalent are not considered
     part of the section titles.  M. Delete any section Entitled
     "Endorsements".  Such a section    may not be included in the
     Modified Version.  N. Do not retitle any existing section to be
     Entitled "Endorsements"    or to conflict in title with any
     Invariant Section.  O. Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.

     If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
     appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no
     material copied from the Document, you may at your option
     designate some or all of these sections as invariant.  To do this,
     add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
     Version's license notice.  These titles must be distinct from any
     other section titles.

     You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
     nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
     parties-for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
     been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition
     of a standard.

     You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text,
     and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end
     of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one
     passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be
     added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the
     Document already includes a cover text for the same cover,
     previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity
     you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may
     replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous
     publisher that added the old one.

     The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this
     License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to
     assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.


  5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

     You may combine the Document with other documents released under
     this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for
     modified versions, provided that you include in the combination
     all of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents,
     unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
     combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all
     their Warranty Disclaimers.

     The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
     multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
     copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name
     but different contents, make the title of each such section unique
     by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the
     original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
     unique number.  Make the same adjustment to the section titles in
     the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the
     combined work.

     In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled
     "History" in the various original documents, forming one section
     Entitled "History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled
     "Acknowledgements", and any sections Entitled "Dedications".  You
     must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements".


  6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

     You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other
     documents released under this License, and replace the individual
     copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy
     that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the
     rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the
     documents in all other respects.

     You may extract a single document from such a collection, and
     distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert
     a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow
     this License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of
     that document.


  7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

     A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other
     separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of
     a storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the
     copyright resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the
     legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the individual
     works permit.  When the Document is included in an aggregate, this
     License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which
     are not themselves derivative works of the Document.

     If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
     copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half
     of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed
     on covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the
     electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic
     form.  Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket
     the whole aggregate.


  8. TRANSLATION

     Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
     distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section
     4.  Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
     permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
     translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
     original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
     translation of this License, and all the license notices in the
     Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also
     include the original English version of this License and the
     original versions of those notices and disclaimers.  In case of a
     disagreement between the translation and the original version of
     this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will
     prevail.

     If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements",
     "Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to
     Preserve its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the
     actual title.


  9. TERMINATION

     You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document
     except as expressly provided for under this License.  Any other
     attempt to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is
     void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this
     License.  However, parties who have received copies, or rights,
     from you under this License will not have their licenses
     terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.


 10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

     The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of
     the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new
     versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
     differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
     http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

     Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version
     number.  If the Document specifies that a particular numbered
     version of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you
     have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
     that specified version or of any later version that has been
     published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.  If
     the Document does not specify a version number of this License,
     you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the
     Free Software Foundation.


ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents
====================================================


To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
the License in the document and put the following copyright and
license notices just after the title page:

    Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
    Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
    under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
    or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
    with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
    A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
    Free Documentation License''.

If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts,
replace the ``with...Texts.'' line with this:

    with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the
    Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.

If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other
combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the
situation.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of
free software license, such as the GNU General Public License,
to permit their use in free software.

Concept Index
*************

This is a general index of all issues discussed in this manual, with the
exception of the `sourceinstall' commands and command-line options.

Adding a new source package:                   See 4.3.      (line  430)
Bugs, reporting:                               See 6.        (line  717)
Changing the Preferences:                      See 4.4.      (line  459)
Conforming and non-conforming packages:        See 5.2.      (line  568)
Consistency checks:                            See 5.1.      (line  548)
Copying:                                       See 7.        (line  735)
FDL, GNU Free Documentation License:           See 7.2.      (line 1157)
Files and Directories:                         See 5.5.      (line  647)
GPL, GNU General Public License:               See 7.1.      (line  799)
Installing the Installer:                      See 1.1.      (line   57)
Introduction for Beginners:                    See 1.        (line   36)
Introduction for the Experienced:              See 2.        (line  243)
Invoking:                                      See 3.        (line  350)
Looking for the right package:                 See 4.2.      (line  404)
no warranty:                                   See 7.1.      (line 1063)
Options:                                       See 3.2.      (line  364)
Other package management systems:              See 5.3.      (line  589)
Querying package information:                  See 4.5.      (line  502)
Removing a package:                            See 4.6.      (line  510)
Synopsis:                                      See 3.1.      (line  356)
The default setup:                             See 4.1.      (line  382)
Troubleshooting sourceinstall Installation:    See 1.2.      (line  153)
Usage for Beginners:                           See 4.        (line  379)
Usage for the Experienced:                     See 5.        (line  522)
Users:                                         See 5.4.      (line  607)
Why should you avoid this program?:            See 2.2.      (line  308)
Why should you use this program?:              See 2.1.      (line  260)
Index
*****

This is an alphabetical list of all `sourceinstall' commands,
command-line options, and environment variables.

--help:                                        See 3.2.      (line  364)
--version:                                     See 3.2.      (line  368)
-h:                                            See 3.2.      (line  364)
-V:                                            See 3.2.      (line  368)
Table of Contents
*****************

GNU Source Installer
1 Introduction for Beginners
  1.1 Installing the Installer
  1.2 Troubleshooting `sourceinstall' Installation
2 Introduction for the Experienced
  2.1 Why should you use this program?
  2.2 Why should you avoid this program?
3 Invoking
  3.1 Synopsis
  3.2 Options
4 Usage for Beginners
  4.1 The default setup
  4.2 Looking for the right package
  4.3 Adding a new source package
  4.4 Changing the Preferences
  4.5 Querying package information
  4.6 Removing a package
5 Usage for the Experienced
  5.1 Consistency checks
  5.2 Conforming and non-conforming packages
  5.3 Other package management systems
  5.4 Users
  5.5 Files and Directories
6 Reporting Bugs
7 Copying
  7.1 GNU General Public License
  Preamble
  How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs
  7.2 GNU Free Documentation License
  ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents
Concept Index
Index


